# 4 ways of Being a Good Engineer

Guide for coaching engineers on soft-skills

## Be a team player

DO: Believe that success is dependent on others. Be a key part of an inclusive #oneteam environment
that fosters collaboration and creativity.

DO: Empiricism. Knowledge comes primarily from sensory experience of doing. Think with your hands -
Show, not only tell.

DO: Meaningfully collaborate with the team in the creative process.

DO: Transfer knowledge, reducing the agile teams dependency on specialized skills.

DO: Participate in team grooming and planning to provide insight into the technical requirements.

DO: Learn through engagement. Be part of an Agile team; accept and complete product tasks, “drop in”
and participate in agile ceremonies, and work hand-in-hand with multiple product teams.

DO: Maintain frequent communication with related teams, initiate reviews of their plans early and
often, attend other team demos, and be available to modify design in real time and pivot to fulfill
changing needs of dependent teams.

DO: Partner with DevOps engineers to facilitate the deployment, operation and governing of cloud
native services with a focus on continuous delivery and automated testing.

DO: Align disparate teams that come together to build an interdependent software ecosystem.
Accelerate the larger teams-of-teams dynamic that—only by acting together—can deliver solutions.

DO: Work in a consultative fashion across our product development disciplines of Engineering,
Product Management, User Experience, Tech Writers, and Product Marketing Managers.

## Be a trailblazer

DO: Map out a path and get teams moving.

DO: Do research spikes with engineers during the uphill phase figure out what our approach is and
what we’re going to do. Design and deliver the first iterations of technical/architecture design to
see at least partly how it works in real life and how it provides something the team can build from.
Write just enough code to explore the use of a technology or technique that we're unfamiliar with;
pair with someone else to transfer skills on knowledge between people.

DO: Prove your trailblazing lead to outcomes — consistency, efficiency, reuse — in pilot projects.
It’s a stepping stone to educate how a enabler efforts benefit others.

DO: Sit in the space of ‘what else might be possible’.

DO: Think and talk about the unknowns and knowns, do not focus and talk about the problems.

DO: Do. Close the knowing-doing gap

DO: Less conversation, more action. Video - A Little Less Conversation

DO: Help product teams understand opportunities and focus on delivering value first.

DO: Drive research, case studies, and prototypes on leading edge technologies and how they can be
leveraged

DO: Engage in, and contribute to, a Lean-Agile enterprise. Believe that “the best architectures,
requirements, and designs emerge from self- organizing teams”. Avoid Big Design Up-front (BDUF) and
replaces it with the practice of emergent design—the process of discovering and extending the
architecture only as necessary to implement and validate the next increment of functionality.

## Be a pragmatic analyst

DO: Work through the details, question the implementations, research the possible options and
outcomes.

DO: Start with Why.

DO: Evolve the technical framework of our systems over time with minimize upfront design and an
understanding of current state.

DO NOT: Formulate detailed technical early in the life cycle then dictate it to the rest of the team

DO NOT: Design systems without an understanding or evolutionary plan to go from here to there.

DO: Provide 10% and 50% feedback, versus 99%.

DO: Be clear in your type of feedback

Thinking out loud One Person’s Opinion Strong suggestion Mandate

DO: Be aware of who needs to be involved in decisions, invite and only invite those who:

Have information needed to make a good choice. Have a responsibility in which their commitment is
needed to implement that choice. Will have a potential conflict over the choice.

DO: Describe our software-intensive systems, based on the use of multiple, concurrent views with
awareness to the frame of reference for the audience.

Build content that describes how to implement, integrate, and operate new and existing technology,
including use-case elaboration, operational requirements, deployment architecture, investment
concepts, logical and conceptual architecture. Use visual representation, such as 4+1 architectural
view model and C4 model, to convey concepts.

DO: Perform gap analysis to highlight gaps in the technology stack and its private and public cloud
platform capabilities.

DO: Focus on the long view, resist the temptation to over-hype an emerging solution and the vicious
cycle of mini-transitions.

DO: Facilitate actionable technical design decisions made with the best understanding and at the
last responsible moment.

DO: Work with suppliers and do investment advocacy, making sure the technical characteristics for
supplier-delivered capabilities are understood and assisting with the integration of these concerns.

DO: Review and prescribe tools and frameworks for common software problems.

DO: Analyze and optimize technical and business processes

DO: Continue learnings on industry best practices and new technologies and translate this knowledge
into actionable benefit to our CloudBees products. Each quarter, learn or refine a new major
technology skill through Udemy training and doing. Be curious.

## Be a torchbearer for a Well-Architected Framework

DO: Carry technical knowledge into strategic conversations about the product direction.

DO: Design for both functional and non-functional qualities, including security, cost efficiency,
operational excellence, reliability, and efficient development.

DO: Think holistically, not siloed. Focus on the way that a system's constituent parts interrelate
and how systems work over time and within the context of larger systems.

DO: Share high-level integration decisions that communicate how apps and components should work
together.

DO: Focus part of your time on mentoring others, finding opportunities to pair with others, and even
running education and training sessions such as formal classes or brown-bag lunch sessions.

DO: Contribute to and evangelize our technical foundation for sound product architecture.
